.. _beaglebone-ai-change-history:

Change History
##################

.. Document Change History
.. ****************************

.. Board changes
.. ****************************

Rev A0
==============

Initial prototype revision. Not taken to production.
eMMC flash image provided by Embest.

Rev A1
==============

Second round prototype.

-  Fixed size of mounting holes.
-  Added LED for WiFi status.
-  Added microHDMI.
-  Changed eMMC voltage from 3.3V to 1.8V to support HS200.
-  Changed eMMC from 4GB to 16GB.
-  Changed serial debug header from 6-pin 100mil pitch to 3-pin 1.5mm pitch.
-  Switched expansion header from UART4 to UART5. The UART4 pins were used for the microHDMI.

eMMC flash image provided by Embest.

Rev A1a
============

Alpha pilot-run units and initial production.

-  `Added pull-down resistor on serial debug header RX
   line <https://github.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-ai/issues/24>`__.

Alpha pilot-run eMMC flash image:
https://debian.beagleboard.org/images/bbai-pilot-20190408.img.xz

Production eMMC flash image:
http://debian.beagleboard.org/images/am57xx-eMMC-flasher-debian-9.9-lxqt-armhf-2019-08-03-4gb.img.xz

Rev A2
==========

Proposed changes.

-  `Add footprint for pull-down resistor on serial debug header RX
   line <https://github.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-ai/issues/24>`__.

-  `Move microSD card cage closer to microHDMI to fit cases
   better <https://github.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-ai/issues/25>`__.

-  `Connect AM5729 ball AB10 to to P9.13 to provide a
   GPIO <https://github.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-ai/issues/22>`__.

-  `HDMI hot-plug detection
   fixes <https://github.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-ai/issues/19>`__.

-  `Add additional CAN port to the expansion
   headers <https://github.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-ai/issues/20>`__.

-  `Fix JTAG connector to not require wire
   mods <https://github.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-ai/issues/21>`__.

-  `Add I2C EEPROM for board
   identifier <https://github.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-ai/issues/23>`__.
