.. _beaglebone-ai-terms-condition:

Terms and Conditions
#####################

REGULATORY, COMPLIANCE, AND EXPORT INFORMATION
*************************************************

-  Country of origin: PRC
-  FCC: 2ATUT-BBONE-AI
-  CE: TBD
-  CNHTS: 8543909000
-  USHTS: 8473301180
-  MXHTS: 84733001
-  TARIC: 8473302000
-  ECCN: 5A992.C
-  CCATS:
   `Z1613110/G180570 <https://github.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-ai/blob/master/regulatory/Validation_Z1613110.pdf>`__
-  RoHS/REACH: TBD
-  Volatility: TBD

BeagleBone AI is annotated to comply with Part 15 of the FCC Rules.
Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) This device
may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any
interference received, including interference that may cause undesired
operation. Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party
responsible for compliance could void the user’s authority to operate
the equipment.

This Class A or B digital apparatus complies with Canadian ICES-003.
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible
for compliance could void the user’s authority to operate the equipment.
Cet appareil numérique de la classe A ou B est conforme à la norme
NMB-003 du Canada. Les changements ou les modifications pas expressément
approuvés par la partie responsible de la conformité ont pu vider
l’autorité de l’utilisateur pour actionner l’équipement.

WARRANTY AND DISCLAIMERS
****************************

The design materials referred to in this document are *\*NOT
SUPPORTED\** and **DO NOT** constitute a reference design. Support of
the open source developer community is provided through the the
resources defined at https://beagleboard.org/support.

THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE DESIGN MATERIALS, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED
BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE DESIGN MATERIALS “AS IS”
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE DESIGN MATERIALS IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE DESIGN
MATERIALS PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY
SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

This board was designed as an evaluation and development tool. It was
not designed with any other application in mind. As such, the design
materials that are provided which include schematic, BOM, and PCB files,
may or may not be suitable for any other purposes. If used, the design
material becomes your responsibility as to whether or not it meets your
specific needs or your specific applications and may require changes to
meet your requirements.

Additional terms
=================

BeagleBoard.org Foundation and logo-licensed manufacturers (together,
henceforth identified as "Supplier") provide BeagleBone AI under the
following conditions:

The user assumes all responsibility and liability for proper and safe
handling of the goods. Further, the user indemnifies Supplier from all
claims arising from the handling or use of the goods.

Should BeagleBone AI not meet the specifications indicated in the System
Reference Manual, BeagleBone AI may be returned within 90 days from the
date of delivery to the distributor of purchase for a full refund. THE
FOREGOING LIMITED WARRANTY IS THE EXCLUSIVE WARRANTY MADE BY SELLER TO
BUYER AND IS IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED, IMPLIED, OR
STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT OF THE INDEMNITY SET FORTH
ABOVE, NEITHER PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER FOR ANY INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES.

Please read the System Reference Manual and, specifically, the Warnings
and Restrictions notice in the Systems Reference Manual prior to
handling the product. This notice contains important safety information
about temperatures and voltages.

No license is granted under any patent right or other intellectual
property right of Supplier covering or relating to any machine, process,
or combination in which such Supplier products or services might be or
are used. The Supplier currently deals with a variety of customers for
products, and therefore our arrangement with the user is not exclusive.
The Supplier assume no liability for applications assistance, customer
product design, software performance, or infringement of patents or
services described herein.

Warnings and Restrictions
******************************************

For Feasibility Evaluation Only, in Laboratory/Development Environments
========================================================================

BeagleBone AI is not a complete product. It is intended solely for use
for preliminary feasibility evaluation in laboratory/development
environments by technically qualified electronics experts who are
familiar with the dangers and application risks associated with handling
electrical mechanical components, systems and subsystems. It should not
be used as all or part of a finished end product.

Your Sole Responsibility and Risk
==========================================

You acknowledge, represent, and agree that:

1. You have unique knowledge concerning Federal, State and local
   regulatory requirements (including but not limited to Food and Drug
   Administration regulations, if applicable) which relate to your
   products and which relate to your use (and/or that of your employees,
   affiliates, contractors or designees) of BeagleBone AI for
   evaluation, testing and other purposes.

2. You have full and exclusive responsibility to assure the safety and
   compliance of your products with all such laws and other applicable
   regulatory requirements, and also to assure the safety of any
   activities to be conducted by you and/or your employees, affiliates,
   contractors or designees, using BeagleBone AI. Further, you are
   responsible to assure that any interfaces (electronic and/or
   mechanical) between BeagleBone AI and any human body are designed
   with suitable isolation and means to safely limit accessible leakage
   currents to minimize the risk of electrical shock hazard.

3. Since BeagleBone AI is not a completed product, it may not meet all
   applicable regulatory and safety compliance standards which may
   normally be associated with similar items. You assume full
   responsibility to determine and/or assure compliance with any such
   standards and related certifications as may be applicable. You will
   employ reasonable safeguards to ensure that your use of BeagleBone AI
   will not result in any property damage, injury or death, even if
   BeagleBone AI should fail to perform as described or expected.

Certain Instructions
======================

It is important to operate BeagleBone AI within Supplier’s recommended
specifications and environmental considerations per the user guidelines.
Exceeding the specified BeagleBone AI ratings (including but not limited
to input and output voltage, current, power, and environmental ranges)
may cause property damage, personal injury or death. If there are
questions concerning these ratings please contact the Supplier
representative prior to connecting interface electronics including input
power and intended loads. Any loads applied outside of the specified
output range may result in unintended and/or inaccurate operation and/or
possible permanent damage to BeagleBone AI and/or interface electronics.
Please consult the System Reference Manual prior to connecting any load
to BeagleBone AI output. If there is uncertainty as to the load
specification, please contact the Supplier representative. During normal
operation, some circuit components may have case temperatures greater
than 60 C as long as the input and output are maintained at a normal
ambient operating temperature. These components include but are not
limited to linear regulators, switching transistors, pass transistors,
and current sense resistors which can be identified using BeagleBone
AI’s schematic located at the link in BeagleBone AI’s System Reference
Manual. When placing measurement probes near these devices during normal
operation, please be aware that these devices may be very warm to the
touch. As with all electronic evaluation tools, only qualified personnel
knowledgeable in electronic measurement and diagnostics normally found
in development environments should use BeagleBone AI.

Agreement to Defend, Indemnify and Hold Harmless
=================================================

You agree to defend, indemnify and hold Supplier, its licensors and
their representatives harmless from and against any and all claims,
damages, losses, expenses, costs and liabilities (collectively,
"Claims") arising out of or in connection with any use of BeagleBone AI
that is not in accordance with the terms of the agreement. This
obligation shall apply whether Claims arise under law of tort or
contract or any other legal theory, and even if BeagleBone AI fails to
perform as described or expected.

Safety-Critical or Life-Critical Applications
===============================================

If you intend to evaluate the components for possible use in safety
critical applications (such as life support) where a failure of the
Supplier’s product would reasonably be expected to cause severe personal
injury or death, such as devices which are classified as FDA Class III
or similar classification, then you must specifically notify Supplier of
such intent and enter into a separate Assurance and Indemnity Agreement.

